
On May 31, 1760, an article in the South Carolina Gazette stated, 

> “Good Reasons have been suggested to us, for not inserting in this paper any Accounts of Insurrections especially at this Time; our Readers will, therefore, we hope, not only excuse, but justify our silence on such Heads.”  

Peter Timothy, the primary editor and owner of the South Carolina Gazette at the time, composed this article in response to the events of the Cherokee War (1759-1761).  Alongside Timothy’s newspaper, Northern outlets like the Pennsylvania Gazette reported the war as a brutal southeastern phase of the ongoing French and Indian War (1754-1763).   However, less publicized events from the Spring and Summer of 1760 provide further insight into Timothy’s cautious language. For instance, on April 8, a little over a month before Timothy published his statement, a massive slave revolt swept across St. Mary’s parish in Jamaica. The rebels strategically armed themselves and moved toward commercial centers, suggesting that this was not a spontaneous act of rebellion but the beginning of a deliberate and organized war. News of what has come to be known as Tacky’s Revolt entered most North American papers beginning in June of that year. Yet, the South Carolina Gazette did not report on it. One month after Timothy published the article in May, the Maryland Gazette revealed that an insurrection, whose participants remained unidentified, was apprehended in “the Province of South Carolina.”  Placing Timothy’s words in the context of these events suggests that the arbiters of information in Charles Town scrutinized and edited news, especially if it was deemed threatening to the public — and perhaps if it could be dangerous in shackled hands. 
	As a violent, contested system of domination and commodification, slavery characterized almost every aspect of life in colonial Charles Town.  This study aims to probe representations of enslaved resistance in the Atlantic as reported in the South Carolina Gazette from 1730 to 1770. What strategies, if any, did the South Carolina Gazette implement to regulate reports of slave revolts? Do patterns emerge? 
    Past studies of colonial news outlets, such as David Copeland’s scholarship, yielded insights into how the press influenced the consolidation of North American colonists’ national identity.  In reconstructions of enslaved resistance, historians such as Vincent Brown used colonial newspapers to supplement vast arrays of primary evidence. However, few scholars have explored the explanatory power of enslaved insurrections, both reported and ignored, in the formation of the colonial press. The historian Robert Olwell writes that “the colonial condition is not necessarily temporary,” and this study seeks to uncover how the South Carolina Gazette’s tactical selection of information about slave insurrections mediated colonial society “through the attempts of its [white] inhabitants to maintain the status quo.” 
    David Copeland’s work on colonial newspapers argued that as a direct result of the violent outbreak of the Stono Rebellion in 1739, the South Carolina Gazette mostly stopped reporting news of enslaved insurrections.  However, this research suggests that Copeland’s conclusion is not the whole story. The South Carolina Gazette did not stop writing this kind of news; however, the Gazette’s style and contents tactically differed from other North American newspapers at the time. In doing so, past scholarship misrepresented how the foundational connections between South Carolina and its Caribbean counterparts influenced the Gazette’s reports of enslaved resistance beginning in the 1730s.  By narrowing the scales of observation to only four decades and by primarily comparing two newspapers, this study contends that the writers and editors of the South Carolina Gazette continued to employ well-practiced strategies from the 1730s in the decades following the Stono Rebellion. Thus, the mounting fear of enslaved resistance in South Carolina explains only part of the Gazette’s strategically more palatable reports.  
***
    Regarding enslaved resistance in the Caribbean, the historian Peter Wood asked, “should white Carolinians view the trouble in the West Indies as a windfall to speed their ascendancy, or as an omen to warn against destruction?”  Wood argued that South Carolina’s white minority traversed the narrow tightrope between “keeping the price of rice up and the percentage of slaves down.”  In doing so, Wood wrote that the South Carolina Gazette chronicled “dramatic stories” of enslaved resistance in the Caribbean “as fully as possible.”  However, through analysis of Inter-Colonial slave trade data alongside reports from the South Carolina Gazette, it is clear that the Gazette reported the “dramatic stories” selectively rather than “fully.” The Gazette repackaged reports of enslaved rebels’ organized resistance to present more convenient monolithic narratives of “rebellious Negroes” for its elite slaveholding audience.  
Throughout the eighteenth century, the South Carolina Gazette repeatedly printed reports reinforcing the idea that demographic disparities between white and black populations caused outbreaks of enslaved insurrections. These reports’ context and South Carolina’s settlement process are intertwined. Planters from the Caribbean island of Barbados settled in South Carolina around the 1670s. These planters brought with them decades of experience in plantation slavery and practice navigating the crude financial calculous of both the Trans-Atlantic and Inter-Colonial slave trades.  In contrast, Northern colonies like Pennsylvania were settled more slowly by white colonists, many of whom sought religious freedom. 
    While enslaved Africans and people of African descent inhabited Philadelphia and Charles Town in the eighteenth century, the character and environment of enslavement in these two urban landscapes differed. North American colonies’ economic dependence on slavery and the slave trade produced varying manifestations of fear, practices of domination, and forms of labor to negotiate the relationship between master and enslaved. Demographic data from the eighteenth century is revealing for evaluating colonists’ fear of slave insurrections in the North American colonies. For instance, Table 1 suggests that in 1750, an estimated 2.4 percent of Pennsylvania’s population was Black and enslaved, while in South Carolina, 60.94 percent was Black and enslaved.  In addition, nearly half of all captive Africans brought to North American colonies through the Trans-Atlantic and Intra-American slave trade disembarked through the ports of Charles Town.   
Table 1: Population of the Original Thirteen Colonies in 1750 and 1790
1750	1750	1790	1790	1790	State
White	Black	White	Free Non-white	Slave	
108,270	3,010	232,236	2,771	2,648	Connecticut
27,208	1,496	46,310	3,899	8,887	Delaware
4,200	1,000	52,886	398	29,264	Georgia
97,623	43,450	208,649	8,043	103,036	Maryland
183,925	4,075	373,187	5,369	–	Massachusetts
26,955	550	141,112	630	157	New Hampshire
66,039	5,354	169,954	2,762	11,423	New Jersey
65,682	11,014	314,366	4,682	21,193	New York
53,184	19,800	289,181	5,041	100,783	North Carolina
116,794	2,872	317,479	6,531	3,707	Pennsylvania
29,879	3,347	64,670	3,484	958	Rhode Island
25,000	39,000	140,178	1,801	107,094	South Carolina
129,581	101,452	442,117	12,866	292,627	Virginia
934,340	236,420	2,792,325	58,277	681,777	United States
Note: Estimates made before 1790 are derived from disparate sources and are thus imprecise and fluctuate as new evidence is found or dismissed. 

	Despite differences in demographics, economic systems, and ideologies, Philadelphia and Charles Town shared a passion for print culture. With Benjamin Franklin’s financial backing, Thomas Whitemarsh established the South Carolina Gazette in 1732.  The Pennsylvania Gazette and South Carolina Gazette often reprinted letters and articles from British and Caribbean outlets. Inside their crowded pages, both newspapers reprinted foreign intelligence, announcements of births and deaths, shipping news, captains’ reports, estate auctions, and advertisements, including those for enslaved fugitives. Like other North American papers at the time, the South Carolina Gazette often mimicked Franklin’s form in design and most of its contents. The significant departure from this mimicry was in reports on slave revolts.   
Upon Whitemarsh’s arrival in Charles Town, he found himself a member of the affluent, white minority. The peninsular city’s busy seaports, where local trade routes from the rivers Ashley, Cooper, Wando, and Stono met the Atlantic wharves, hosted bustling international trade, namely of enslaved people as well as rice and indigo.  Both large and small vessels frequented Charles Town’s seaports, carrying commodities up waterways to plantations and trading goods from the West Indies and Britain.  
 “It was the violence of the eighteenth century,” wrote historian George Rogers, that “kept Charleston society fluid.” Rogers noted that “Disease, fires, hurricanes, and wars kept people from settling down in a long-term routine.”  The historian Robert Olwell elaborated on this, writing that “the streets of Charles Town were once a lively scene of noise and stink, of confusion and chaos.” In the crowded marketplaces “masters and slaves, as well as horses and carriages, jostled for the right of way.”  Within these contested spaces gossip and surveillance flourished. 
    Throughout the eighteenth century, the juridical bodies of Charles Town continually cited enslaved inhabitants as menaces, stating that enslaved groups were often “gaming in the street and caballing in great numbers.”  Repetitive reports from the South Carolina Gazette reinforce the image of persistent attempts to police enslaved people within the city. For instance, the Gazette reprinted “an Act for the better ordering and governing of Negroes and all other slaves in this Province” in 1734.  In August of 1739, a month before the Stono Rebellion, the Gazette printed “An Act for the better Security of the Inhabitants of this Province against the Insurrections and other wicked Attempts of Negroes and other slaves.”  Later, in 1742, the Gazette published a state of affairs on an act “For the better [protecting] us from Negro Insurrections, and for encouraging Poor People,” which obliged planters to maintain some white men on their plantations in proportion to the number of enslaved men.  The Gazette also featured short articles that listed acts newly “revived and continued” by the colonial assembly, including those mentioned above.  
***
    Before Thomas Whitemarsh established the South Carolina Gazette, colonial news outlets, such as the Boston News-Letter, published accounts of insurrection in South Carolina. On October 22, 1730, the News-Letter, reprinted an “Extract of two Letters from South Carolina” dated August 20, 1730. Reporting two months after the fact, the News-Letter gave “an Account of a bloody tragedy which was to have been executed here last Saturday Night (the 15th Inst.) by the Negroes, who had conspired to Rise and destroy us, and had almost bro’t it to pass.”   This article featured core patterns of white colonists’ attitudes toward enslaved resistance in eighteenth-century North America. South Carolina’s and Boston’s white populations appeared hyper-focused on determining enslaved Africans’ scope and plan of revolt. In other words, white colonists often attempted to piece together the intended size of enslaved insurrections and determine the intended victims. 
    In this case, the enslaved rebels seem split between two methods, one being an insurrection on “every plantation” and the other a single “surprise” blow.   While the exact location is not clear from the newspaper article, we know that the “great Body” of enslaved rebels lived in an urban environment. Therefore, one probable location is Charles Town and the Tidewater plantations of South Carolina. Yet, the most telling aspect of this article is the author’s acknowledgment of South Carolina’s demographic disparities. As if corroborating the inevitability of enslaved resistance, the report notes that in 1730 South Carolina had “about 28 thousand Negroes, to 3 thousand Whites,” bringing attention to the potential danger of a large, enslaved population. 
	Throughout the eighteenth century, white colonists often cited demographic disparities as the root cause of individual enslaved crimes and outbreaks of revolt. However, nowhere was this more prominent than in contemporary discussions of South Carolina’s enslaved population.  Copeland argued that colonial printers’ inclusion of demographic references in newspapers suggested “no real details of a revolt were needed” to conclude “what might happen if an uprising were to occur.”  
	Similar to the Boston News-Letter’s 1730 report, the Pennsylvania Gazette printed two instances of enslaved resistance in Virginia and Jamaica that year. Following the account of insurrection in Virginia, the Pennsylvania Gazette published news “from Jamaica, July 5, that 100 white Men” were “sent out against some Run away Blacks” and that they “were all destroyed” by the escaped fugitives.  In the following sentence, the report stated that “421 Hogsheads of Sugar had been exported from that Island, and 4631” enslaved Africans arrived “from the Coast of Africa.” The information of “4631” captive Africans disembarking in Jamaica suggests that white colonists scrutinized population movements and demographics to construct narratives of cause and effect for outbreaks of enslaved resistance.
In 1730, enslaved captives purchased in Tortuga, St. Kitts, Bermuda, and Antigua traveled up the Delaware River to disembark in Philadelphia.    Notably, no vessels carrying enslaved Africans bought in Jamaica arrived that year. In fact, throughout the entire eighteenth century, only seventeen recorded voyages arrived in Philadelphia, with enslaved Black and African captives purchased in Jamaica.  In contrast, over 223 transshipments of enslaved Africans bought in Jamaica disembarked in the ports of South Carolina, primarily in Charles Town. This quantitative difference is significant because it suggests that the likelihood of enslaved captives arriving in Charles Town from locations that recently witnessed slave rebellions, such as Jamaica, was more probable than in Northern cities like Philadelphia.  
    While we have no data for Intra-American voyages to South Carolina in 1730, data from the Trans-Atlantic slave trade database indicates that over 500 enslaved Africans disembarked in Charles Town from unspecified West African ports that year.  By the time Thomas Whitemarsh published his first issue of the South Carolina Gazette in January of 1732, the number of enslaved Africans within South Carolina had nearly tripled.  Historian George O’Malley’s estimations of the Trans-Atlantic and Intra-Colonial slave trades show that between 1726-1730, 5,325 Africans arrived in South Carolina, nine percent of who were relocated from the Caribbean. Between 1731-1735 approximately 14,700 enslaved Africans disembarked in South Carolina, six percent of which came from the Caribbean.  For readers of the South Carolina Gazette in Charles Town, scenes of captive Africans arriving in the city from forced quarantines in pest houses likely foregrounded their news intake. 
    On July 1, 1732, Whitemarsh published a letter from a Jamaican merchant “to his friend at London” in the South Carolina Gazette. The letter laid out the merchant’s extensive concerns about the “low Value” of Jamaica’s “Produce, which daily declining, greatly discourages the present Settlers.”  Competition from French and Dutch sugar companies seemed to be the merchant’s foremost culprit for the “declining” of Jamaica’s “Sugar-Works” on the international market. However, the letter later indicts “the Increase in our Rebel Negroes” as another cause for the instability of Jamaican sugar production. The merchant went so far as to state that North American colonies, such as “Carolina,” began to: 
Encourage great Numbers [of Jamaican planters] to adventure there, forasmuch as by the 
great, Goodness of his Majesty, and the Wisdom of the Parliament, the Enumeration of 
Rice is taken off, and they have Liberty to send it to foreign Markets directly, which will 
bring such a flow of Riches to that Colony as will help, I fear, to be very much the 
Downfall of the British West India Sugar Colonies. 

In March of the same year, the South Carolina Gazette published an account first received in Boston. The report informed readers of a violent conflict between Maroons – a title that refers to groups of self-liberated Africans – and a party of “60 of the King’s troops, and 40 Negroes, commanded by a Captain, Lieutenant, and other Officers, upon entering a narrow Pass of a great Negro Town in the Mountains” of Jamaica.  The account highlights that “several of the men were killed, and the whole Body entirely defeated,” abandoning their small arms and gunpowder, which gave “great Strength and Encouragement to the Rebels, and much Concern to the Government.” Placed in context with the article from July of 1732, the account suggests that readers of the Gazette would have been familiar with Jamaica’s struggles regarding enslaved resistance on plantations and conflicts with growing Maroon communities. 
	Two years later, in May and September of 1734, the Pennsylvania Gazette and the South Carolina Gazette printed accounts of “Rebel Negroes” in Jamaica.  Benjamin Franklin, the editor of the Pennsylvania Gazette, reprinted intelligence brought by four vessels from Jamaica that disembarked in New York. The article contained detailed information about the number of men raised to suppress the conflicts with Maroon rebels in Jamaica. In addition, the report outlined the financial and legislative actions taken by the Jamaican government to subdue the increase of free and enslaved insurgents. The Gazette reported “that a Road is ordered to be made of 60 Foot wide clear thro’ the Island,” with a “Guard House to be built at every Mile from one End thereof to the other,” to suppress the rebels at “whatever it may Cost.”  Reports of conflict in the Pennsylvania Gazette often included the details of desperate measures colonial governance took to suppress insurrections. In this case, the Gazette reported the intended plans to clear-cut an island-long road with guard houses placed a mile apart to prevent outbreaks of slave revolt. 
	Northern newspapers, such as the Pennsylvania Gazette, Boston Evening-Post, and New-York Weekly Journal, exhibited a similar pattern throughout the eighteenth century, reporting on news that reflected white colonists’ widespread anxieties regarding slave revolt.  By highlighting the drastic measures of colonial governance, such as Jamaica’s in 1734, northern papers reinforced an image of white colonists’ insecurity and desperation. In contrast, the South Carolina Gazette often limited information depicting white colonists’ fear-driven strategies.  
	Letters from Jamaica dated March 1734 account for the intelligence printed in the South Carolina Gazette’s report. However, the information published in Charles Town was not a direct reprinting of the letters. Instead, the formatting suggests that the editor of the Gazette, Lewis Timothy, likely printed a revised version of the letters. Timothy’s article highlighted that the Jamaican assembly levied higher fees on imports of African captives and cattle, in addition to raising house rents and duties on merchants in Kingston, “to the more effectual reducing their Rebel Negroes, which increase daily.” The article continued, stating that the Governor “called a Grand Council of War” to declare Martial Law over the island. However, “a great Majority was against it.” Timothy’s article concludes with a fascinating account of “The Number of Negroes on this Island,” which was “computed to be about Eighty Thousand, and the Whites not Nine Thousand, which strikes them [Jamaican colonists, governance, and planters] all with a general Consternation and are afraid they are not of themselves able to subdue them without immediate Help from England.” 
While the Gazette acknowledges Jamaican colonists’ and planters’ “general Consternation” regarding enslaved resistance, the report does not detail how white colonists sought to suppress potential revolts. The makeup of Jamaica’s population likely illustrated to the Gazette’s readers the inevitable danger of importing excessive numbers of African captives.  Nonetheless, reports published in the South Carolina Gazette generally refrained from detailing the extreme tactics of white colonists, which could leave an impression of desperation on the reader. 
But why leave out the details that other North American newspapers readily reprinted? Whether conscious or subliminal on Lewis Timothy’s part as the editor, the decision to focus on the broad circumstances of enslaved resistance suggests that Timothy and his subscribers viewed the Gazette as a dangerous resource for Charles Town’s enslaved inhabitants. Perhaps within the bustling streets and workhouses of Charles Town, enslaved laborers overheard discussions about the news printed in the Gazette or found copies to read if they were literate. Imagine for a moment the conversations overheard at planters’ and merchants’ dinner tables and the fresh news pouring out from recently docked vessels in Charles Town’s harbor. If enslaved captives in Charles Town learned of Jamaican colonists’ efforts to suppress enslaved revolts, would they be able to execute acts of resistance more effectively? Unfortunately, reconstructing definitive answers to these questions is not within the scope of this paper or the range of extant evidence. However, entertaining this prospect allows new motives, connections, and patterns to emerge regarding the South Carolina Gazette’s coverage of enslaved resistance. 
Consider, for instance, how the South Carolina Gazette and the Pennsylvania Gazette reported on the 1736 plot in Antigua.   In October of 1736, white colonists discovered that hundreds of enslaved Africans planned to overthrow white rule by killing the island’s most prominent planters in a spectacular explosion in the port city of St. Johns. Between 1736 and 1737, the Pennsylvania Gazette devoted over 7400 words across five issues to coverage of the story.  
The reports incorporated the enslaved conspirators’ plans and goals and divulged their names and geographic and ethnic backgrounds. For instance, the English-speaking term “Coromantee,” which referred to African rebels from the Gold Coast, appeared at least nineteen times in the Pennsylvania Gazette’s reports. These accounts also included portrayals of distressed white Antiguans, terrified for their lives and property. However, the Pennsylvania Gazette’s reports were not extraordinary. For instance, the New-York Weekly Journal reprinted word for word the same news from letters and intelligence reports received from Antigua’s government in 1737.  
In contrast, the South Carolina Gazette published at least four articles with noticeably more editorialization. The first extant report of the conspiracy articulated that the “plot among the Negroes here” intended for a “general Massacre.”  The anonymous letter, published in the Gazette on December 4, 1736, begins with a tone of exhaustion as the author wrote, “Sir, you can’t expect a long Letter from one who hath had but two Nights sleep since the 17th instant,” referring to the night when white colonists discovered the conspiracy. The letter outlined how the plot was supposed to have taken place, writing “one of the principal Conspirators,” noted as a Carpenter, “was to have convey’d some Gun powder under them [prominent planters] and blown up the Company.” In the confusion of the explosion, the enslaved conspirators were going to attack the town “in 4 different Places, by the 4 principal Conspirators, each heading a Body of 300 Negroes with Bills and Cutlasses.” Thus, the enslaved conspirators planned to strategically overtake the town of St. John’s, the island’s major commercial port. 
In addition, the author of the letter printed in the South Carolina Gazette from December 4, asserted that “Colonel Lucas sails in this Ship for your Place, he will give a better Account of the same than I can by the writing.”  It is almost certain that “Colonel Lucas” refers to the English planter, colonial administrator, and slaveholder, Lieutenant Colonel George Lucas.  The Lucas family resided in Antigua in the seventeenth century and the first three decades of the eighteenth century. On the island, the Lucas family owned three plantations in addition to landholdings in South Carolina, where the family eventually moved in 1738. 
Notably, the Gazette’s article cited Colonel Lucas as the better informant of intelligence regarding the conspiracy in Antigua. The historian Carol Walter Ramagosa notes in her study of the Lucas family in Antigua that an enslaved man named Caesar, convicted in the 1736 conspiracy, and executed on February 18, 1737, was listed as the property of George Lucas.   Colonel Lucas’s experience of the conspiracy and its gruesome aftermath suggests that wealthy planters, slaveholders, and merchants directly shaped the South Carolina Gazette’s coverage of enslaved resistance in the 1730s.  
In the following months of 1737, the Gazette printed short excerpts such as “the 13th paragraph of the said Report,” in which Antigua’s governance speculated what encouraged the enslaved conspirators to revolt, to which the article chiefly cited the “inequality of Numbers of white and black.”  In this case, the attention paid to demographic disparities seems to cover up more nuanced explanations of enslaved resistance that are apparent in reprinted letters. Moreover, while reprinted letters often contained more complex details of insurrections and conspiracies, they were not always reliable. Thus, it is notable that in the case of official reports from Antigua’s governance, the Gazette only included official content that cited the disproportionate “Numbers of white and black.”
A subsequent letter from Antigua, printed in the Gazette in April 1737, stated that the enslaved leaders of the conspiracy may have been literate and educated in Christian beliefs, which the anonymous author argued encouraged the plot. The letter stated, 
As most of these were the favorite Negroes, brought up in the Families, which laid this 
Scheme, so they could carry it on with greater secrecy, many of the Heads being capable 
of Writing and Reading, and had been taught the Christian Religion […] and therefore in 
Swearing the Multitude into their Scheme, they swore them and administered the 
Sacrament to all such as professed themselves Christians according to the Rites of the 
Bishop’s Church, […] which gives us a Specimen of what may be expected from 
Converting Negroes.  

The letter indicates that within the ranks of the enslaved rebels, the “Top-Tradesmen and born on the island (commonly called Creoles)” planned to murder Coromantee conspirators after “Massacring all the white people.” This report, if it is correct, illustrates the division among enslaved conspirators and tensions between native-born and African slaves. It is noteworthy the author of this letter featured the conspirators’ ethnic backgrounds, as few other reports in the South Carolina Gazette include those details.  
The final article in the Gazette, published in July of 1737, was directly addressed to “Mr. Timothy,” the paper’s editor. In it, an anonymous author retaliated against the earlier letter, writing that Christianity could never lead to such plots of destruction. Nonetheless, at the end of the article, the author closes with this sentence, “I could say more on this subject, especially in Relation to the Right we have of making them [enslaved people] what they are, but Prudence and our Safety forbids.”  Reports of outbreaks of insurrection in Jamaica and St. John’s island in 1734 and 1735 echoed similar tones of self-censorship and acknowledgment of danger. The ignorance of details further suggests that the Gazette’s printer, and perhaps South Carolina’s governance, feared the newspaper could be a resource for enslaved people in Charles Town and the surrounding Lowcountry plantations.
***
The Stono Rebellion, the largest slave revolt in British North America, began about 20 miles south of Charles Town in September 1739. In the wake of the rebellion’s devastation, South Carolina’s assembly passed a “Bill for the better ordering and governing of Negroes and other slaves in this province,” referred to today as the Negro Act of 1740. The Act limited enslaved mobility even further, making it illegal for enslaved people to assemble in groups, and mitigated enslaved individuals’ capacity to conduct their own business within the province. The law decreed that “slaves ought to be settled and limited by positive laws, so that the slave may be kept in due subjection and obedience,” and it further enforced enslaved people “to submit […] or undergo examination [by] any white person.”  The South Carolina Gazette did not report the new slave code that year.  And in this context, perhaps white colonists deduced that news of rebellions and conspiracies in Jamaica and Antigua partially catalyzed the violent events of the Stono Rebellion. 
Although the Stono Rebellion undoubtedly obliged the South Carolina Gazette to limit information regarding enslaved resistance for fear of inciting further violence, the paper continued to pepper in the news of insurrections from American and Caribbean colonies in the following three decades. However, articles’ frequency and length significantly decreased compared to the 1730s. In addition, the Gazette mostly stopped reporting on slave revolts that broke out in locations with significant Inter-Colonial slave trade to Charles Town, such as Jamaica. 
For instance, in 1745, every North American news outlet, except for the South Carolina Gazette, reported an insurrection of enslaved rebels in Jamaica. The Pennsylvania Gazette published on March 12, 1745, that enslaved rebels planned to “destroy all the whites” on the island and that the insurgents’ plan was “very near accomplished.”  In the same year, Elizabeth Timothy, who took over the South Carolina Gazette in 1738 when her husband Peter Timothy died, printed laws prohibiting enslaved people’s mobility within Charles Town. Under her direction, the South Carolina Gazette reported legislation from the colony that prohibited “gathering together such great Numbers of Negroes, both in Town and Country, at their Burials and on the Sabbath Day.”  Thus while news of enslaved resistance dwindled in the Gazette’s coverage, word of enslaved people’s activities did not. 
In 1750 that the Gazette reported news alongside numerous North American papers of revolts in the Dutch settlements in the Antilles, namely Curaçao and Surinam. The New-York Weekly Gazette Revived in the Weekly Post-Boy first reported the insurrection from intelligence received from Capt. Hill, “by whom we have the following Extract of a Letter, dated July 25.”  Additionally, the New-York Weekly Gazette printed intelligence “By some other Letters from Coracoa” in the same issue.  At least four North American papers, including the Pennsylvania Gazette, duplicated the accounts featured in the New-York Weekly Gazette. The reports detailed a gruesome scene, writing that a “Parcel of new” enslaved rebels “cut off the Head of one white Man and several Negroes” on a plantation belonging to the West-India Company. The report continued, stating that the enslaved rebels were “soon repulsed, taken, and destroy’d and scatter’d by a Party of Soldiers, and a Company of free Negroes, immediately sent out against them.” Further news described “that 38 of the Negroes had been executed, most of whom were rack’d, cut open, and their Hearts taken out and dash’d in their Faces.”   
The spectacle of overt violence portrayed by most North American papers is distressing on multiple fronts. Newspapers’ reports highlighted that the executions of enslaved insurgents were tedious and often elaborately cruel. The image of white colonists waving enslaved rebels’ “hearts” in their faces suggests a rather dark corporeal metaphor of the hopelessness in resisting white colonial power. Perhaps on a more subliminal level, the heightened violence indicates colonists’ overcompensation for their fear and anxiety surrounding Black and African resistance. 
In stark contrast, the South Carolina Gazette’s report from September 1750 printed, “We hear from Curraws [Curaçao] that they have lately had an Insurrection by the Negroes there, which was, however, soon suppressed; and that upwards of 85 of the Ringleaders were already executed.”  In an issue published twenty days later, the Gazette printed intelligence from Suriname, dated May 29, 1750. The report stated that a detachment of Dutch national troops in the “Service of the States General […] is to be sent to Surinam, in order to suppress an Insurrection which their High Mightiness have been informed has happened among the Negroes in that Colony, and in which one of the most considerable plantations has been ravaged, and all the white People belonging to it Murdered.”  Here, the Gazette spared room for more detail, highlighting the destruction of a vital plantation and the murdering of its white inhabitants. However, both reports refrain from detailing the precise actions of enslaved rebels and the often-brutal consequences of their resistance. 
Intra-American slave trade data might help us contextualize why the South Carolina Gazette included reports of both insurrections. Only nine Inter-Colonial vessels carrying enslaved captives in the eighteenth century traveled from Curaçao to South Carolina.  Between 1737-1750, no Inter-Colonial slave trading ships disembarked in any of South Carolina’s ports. New York was the primary North American landing destination for Inter-Colonial ships from Curaçao during the eighteenth century. Although no known boats carrying enslaved captives arrived in New York between 1746-1753, the higher frequency of trade underpins why newspapers in New York responded first to the news of the insurrection.  As indicated in Table 1, in 1750, less than six percent of New York’s population was Black and enslaved. Meanwhile, over half of the population in South Carolina remained in contested bondage.
Inter-Colonial slave trade data between Suriname and South Carolina during the eighteenth century is not extant. Only twelve recorded voyages from Suriname landed in mainland North America in the 1700s.  Captives from Suriname primarily landed in New York, although the ships “Union” and “Benjamin and Sally” disembarked in Boston with the highest numbers of human cargo in 1758 and 1761.  South Carolina’s infrequent Inter-Colonial slave trade with Curaçao and Suriname suggests one reason that the printer of the South Carolina Gazette likely perceived news from these locations as innocuous compared to intelligence received from Jamaican and Barbadian ship captains and merchants. 
Compared to news of resistance from Dutch colonies, reports of enslaved rebels in Jamaica frequented most North American papers from 1740 to 1770 (excluding the South Carolina Gazette). And in 1760, news of Tacky’s Revolt emanated across the British Atlantic, striking fear in white merchants, planters, and colonists alike whose livelihood depended upon the subjugation of enslaved labor.  
In the early hours of April 8, 1760, the first violent revolts comprising more than fifteen hundred enslaved men and women began in the mountainous northeastern parish of St. Mary’s, Jamaica. First, rebels overtook Fort Haldane, a military barracks site and an armory at the entrance to Port Maria Harbor. Here the enslaved rebels began “killing the Centinel at the Fort” and “took from thence four Barrels of Powder, a Keg of Musket Balls, and all the Small Arms in the Fort, about 40 of which only they found serviceable.”  Fleeing the British counterattack at Fort Haldane, the rebels separated into small groups and continued to raid Jamaica’s sinuous coastline. Vincent Brown’s cartographic work on Tacky’s Revolt suggests that the rebels’ movement towards Port Maria and Annotto Bay waterways, which were critical commercial trade zones, indicated that the insurgents may have hoped to secure avenues of trade and export.
The “Extract of a Letter from a Gentleman at St. Mary,” published in Jamaican, British, and North American newspapers, undoubtedly written by Zachary Bayly, a Jamaican plantation owner and organizer of the militia, stated:
You easily will judge the dangerous Example it is to our Slaves, already too prone 
to revolt. If the most vigorous Methods are not pursued at home to crush this 
Insurrection, and preventing those Rebels from settling or nestling in the very Bosom of 
all our Colonies, I am afraid we shall, in a few Years, be without any [slaves] on this 
Continent. 

Thus, North American newspaper outlets, such as the Pennsylvania Gazette, New-York Mercury, and Maryland Gazette, reported the events of Tacky’s Revolt as a nightmare.  These clippings often characterized the insurrections as dreadful extensions of the Seven Years’ War, portraying the rebels as an invasion of African foreign militants taking advantage of Britain’s global conflicts. 
By the end of eighteen months, enslaved rebels killed sixty whites across the island and damaged tens of thousands of pounds worth of property.  The colonial militia brutalized and killed over five hundred rebels during the conflicts. Violent executions and rebels’ suicides further darkened the aftermath of the rebellions. Jamaican governance forcibly banished about five hundred captured rebels, shipping them off the island, and unfortunately, naval and shipping records do not indicate the captives’ destinations. 
In South Carolina, 1760 brought violence, disease, and legislative debate. Charles Town’s proximity to the Cherokee War and a devastating outbreak of smallpox color much of the Gazette’s content during that year. While news of Tacky’s Revolt never appeared in the Gazette’s columns, in 1760, South Carolina’s assembly attempted to pass an act to stop all imports of enslaved Africans in the hopes that it would alleviate the demographic disparities in the colony.  However, the Privy Council immediately disallowed it, reprimanding the governor of South Carolina for the potential loss in profits. 
One ardent South Carolinian wrote to Lewis Timothy, the South Carolina Gazette’s printer, in June of 1761 about the bill. In an extensive editorial piece, the author argued that “An increase of negroes adds to the riches of a country, only where they are so employed as to bring in a reasonable profit to the master; otherwise they become a burden: they never can add to the strength of a people, but subject it to perpetual dangers, which will always be greater, according to the disproportion.”  Once again, the Gazette made space for a narrative that reinforced the common belief that the “disproportion” of South Carolina’s population exacerbated “perpetual dangers” of enslaved resistance. The phrase “they never can add to the strength of a people” is poignant, since news of the organized rebels in Jamaica most likely reached the inhabitants of Charles Town, both free and enslaved, through other newspapers and by word of mouth from merchants, planters, and recently arrived African captives.  
Rare first-hand narratives, such as Olaudah Equiano’s autobiography, highlight the possibilities of informational “routes of reverberation” during outbreaks of recorded enslaved resistance.  For instance, Equiano described meeting and speaking with other enslaved captives upon landing in Barbados. The enslaved Barbadians quickly assured Equiano and the other captive Africans on board the ship what white colonists expected of them, which from Equiano’s perspective, relieved some of his fears.  The historian Greg O’Malley highlights that despite debates around Equiano’s experience in bondage, he did work for a Montserrat merchant “who purchased arriving slaves for distribution in the Americas,” thus, it is probable that Equiano interacted with newly arrived enslaved Africans.   Equiano’s narrative presents possibilities for locating the origins of enslaved captives’ routes of shared information. 
For instance, in the 1760s, approximately fifty-three Inter-Colonial vessels arrived in South Carolina, with enslaved captives purchased in Jamaica.  It is imaginable (and nearly inevitable) that enslaved captives from Jamaica, even newly arrived from African ports, became aware of Jamaica’s ongoing conflicts with enslaved rebels – and transported those stories to their final destinations. Although the slave trade slowed between Jamaica and South Carolina during Tacky’s Revolt, reports from the Pennsylvania Gazette illustrate that enslaved insurrections continued to unsettle Jamaica in 1763 and 1766.  About thirty-two vessels transported captives from Jamaican ports to South Carolina during these three years. The South Carolina Gazette printed no news of enslaved resistance in Jamaica during the 1760s, though it acknowledged the island’s struggles with “insurrections.”  
In 1762, 1763, and 1769, news of enslaved resistance crossed the pages of the South Carolina Gazette. Intelligence from letters described an attempted insurrection in French Martinique, a revolt in Dutch Berbice, and a rebellion onboard a Trans-Atlantic vessel near New Caliber, respectively.  The Pennsylvania Gazette covered the same insurrection in Berbice in 1763, noting that the uprising was “entirely quelled” and that “great Numbers of the rebellious Negroes have been put to Death, for the future Security of that place.”  The South Carolina Gazette referenced the insurrection in Berbice only in passing.  
Moreover, the Gazette’s coverage of enslaved resistance continued to be vague and dispersed in the 1760s. The report from Martinique contained the most detail, highlighting that many free and enslaved rebels threatened the island’s stability.  The South Carolina Gazette’s deeper coverage of the attempted insurrection may reflect the lack of evidence of the Inter-Colonial slave trade between Martinique and South Carolina. Compared to rumors and intelligence from Jamaica, gossip about Martinique’s enslaved rebels may not have posed an immediate threat to Charles Town’s slaveholding class. Thus, despite past historians’ claims about the Gazette’s coverage of enslaved resistance after the Stono Rebellion, articles from the 1760s underscore that the South Carolina Gazette’s reports remained deliberately exacting.  
***
Overall, these findings suggest that the South Carolina Gazette’s coverage of enslaved resistance was not necessarily a pattern of omission but rather one of tactical selectivity. Elite merchants and governance sought to maintain economic and social stability through narrative control despite the constant danger of enslaved resistance. While this research can extend into many different directions that deserve attention, the primary goal of this research is to highlight that while the significance of the Stono Rebellion is paramount, it did not fundamentally change how the Gazette reported slave revolts and conspiracies in the eighteenth century. In other words, it is more likely that the rebellion validated how the Gazette had already written on enslaved revolts in the Caribbean in the 1730s. 
Reckoning with the narrative erasure of enslaved rebels’ intelligence and capacity for resistance requires further careful and creative research. In the book Dispossessed Lives, Marisa Fuentes posed the question: how, as historians, can we reconstruct enslaved subjectives that resist “coherence and representability?”  Moreover, how can we use the evidence at our disposal to re-examine and call into question dominant historicized narratives? While this study focused on the explanatory power of newfound patterns within the South Carolina Gazette’s reports on enslaved resistance, it also sought to engage with these questions methodologically. For instance, the collective use of Inter-Colonial Slave Trade Data and colonial newspapers identified potential locations for future investigations into enslaved informational networks. In addition, this methodology unearthed white colonists calculated narratives of demographic disparities that undercut representations of enslaved rebels’ actions as thoughtful, strategic, and organized. 
Reading the South Carolina Gazette reinforces the gruesome reality that white colonists often perceived enslaved rebels as unruly commodities. In the future, I hope this research and methodology can reach deeper into the subaltern details of enslaved voices and experiences by helping us re-trace enslaved captives’ informational networks used to resist enslavement and white supremacy in the Atlantic World.
